ALGORITHMS FOR THE ASSIGNMENT PROBLEM
-------------------------------------

Introduction
------------

With this package, I provide some MATLAB-functions regarding the rectangular assignment 
problem. This problem appears for example in radar tracking, where you have M existing 
tracks and N new measurements. For each possible assignment, a cost or distance is computed. 
These cost values are gathered into a matrix, where the row index corresponds to the tracks 
and the column index corresponds to the measurements.

In the process of gating, very unlikely assignments are forbidden, i.e. the corresponding 
assignment cost is set to infinity. The given functions can handle forbidden assignments.


Functions contained in this package
-----------------------------------

assignmentallpossible.m
  Computes the optimal assignment by recursively stepping over all possible assignment 
  vectors. Used for reference computation.

assignmentoptimal.m and assignmentoptimal.c
  Computes the optimal assignment using Munkres algorithm.

assignmentsuboptimal1.m and assignmentsuboptimal2.c
  Computes a suboptimal solution. Suited for cases with many forbidden assignments.

assignmentsuboptimal1.m and assignmentsuboptimal2.c
  Computes a suboptimal solution. Suited when no forbidden assignments are existing.

testassign.m
  Compares the algorithms regarding performance and optimality of solutions.


Usage
-----
  
The first four functions are called like the following:

[assignment, cost] = assignment_xx(distMatrix);

(Replace "_xx" by "optimal", for example). Type "help assignment_xx" for more hints to the 
different algorithms.

Take care that the costs/distances are positive or zero!


How to use mex-files
--------------------

The C language source files are so-called mex-files for MATLAB. You should be able to compile 
these functions on all systems by typing  "mex functionname.m" in MATLAB. If you have never 
used mex before, you have to type "mex -setup" in order to select a compiler.

The mex-command creates a file with a system-dependent extension, in Windows it is .dll. As 
soon as this file in generated, you can use is as you would call a MATLAB function. When both 
mex- and m-file of the same name are on the MATLAB path, the mex-file is chosen.

The mex-files will save orders of magnitude in computation time. Use the test functions 
testassignment.m with your own preferences and have a look at the profiler output. 

By the way, you will find that in some cases the mex-implementations of the suboptimal 
algorithms need a longer computation time than the optimal algorithm. The functions are much 
faster than the MATLAB-implementations, but they can still be improved (If you do, please let 
me know).
  

Using the functions from C
--------------------------

The mex-files always contain a function called "mexFunction" that is needed for MATLAB and 
a function called "assignment_xx". You can use the second if you want to apply the algorithms 
directly from C. If you do not have MATLAB installed, you have to replace the mx-functions 
(e.g. mxCalloc) by ordinary C-functions and delete the two include lines.

If you decide to use the functions in C, you might need the column indices to start from 0, 
not from 1 as in MATLAB. Just delete the definition of ONE_INDEXING and you are done. If you 
do not need to handle infinite values in your applications, also delete the definition of 
CHECK_FOR_INF. 

Two more points to take care of when using C: The assignment vector is defined as a double 
precision array, as MATLAB uses double precision values anyway. When referencing elements 
with the computed assignment vector in C, you have to change all function declarations to use 
integer values. Further, the distance or cost matrix of size MxN is defined as a double 
precision array of N*M elements. Matrices are saved MATLAB-internally in row-order (i.e. the 
matrix [1 2; 3 4] will be stored as a vector [1 3 2 4], NOT [1 2 3 4]).


Problems
--------

I have not tested the functions on any other system than Windows with MATLAB 6.5.1. But as I do
not use any sophisticated functions or special toolboxes, I expect the functions to run on all 
systems without problems. If you have problems anyway, feel free to contact me.


Contact
-------

Dipl.-Ing. Markus Buehren
Chair of System Theory
and Signal Processing
University of Stuttgart
Pfaffenwaldring 47
70550 Stuttgart
Germany

+49 (0) 711 685-7353
http://www.Lss.uni-stuttgart.de


Version
-------

Last modified 05.08.2005
